# Structure of a program
Every program can be phrased as repeated applications of the following procedure.

1. ```Get``: Data is retrieved from storage.
2. ```Modify```: Data is changed.
3. ```Put```: Changes are persisted to storage.

The underlying storage and the nature of the changes will vary depending on preferences and 
use-cases. However, the general procedure remains the same regardless of the situation.

# Relational algebras
The language of SQL specifically and relational algebra generally is particularly condusive to 
expressing tasks of the first and third variety. However, it is woefully inadequete for expressing 
the second. Why is this the case?

Relational algebras force developers to think in set theoretic terms. This mindset is very intuitive 
for retrieving collections of objects, but (a) not all programs operate on collections of data and 
(b) retrieval is only part of the problem.

# What's the alternative?
Clearly, the language of relational algebras is not sufficient to specify complete programs. Because 
of these large deficiencies in the language itself, developers have started turning towards 
"language-specific frontends that hide the SQL in our regular every-day programming languages, and 
treating SQL as the protocol for talking to relational databases." 
(https://stackoverflow.com/a/2497377/1447029) SparkQL, SchemeQL, and HaskellDB are all examples of 
this kind of library. 

But if SQL is just used as a transport layer between language-specific frontends and the underlying 
relational database, then why use it at all? Why restrict ourselves to relational database? Why 
restrict ourselves to the limiting language of relational algebras?
